\chapter{How Much Data Needed to Make a Reliable APWP}\label{chap:DatNeed}
\textit{This chapter mainly describes how the mean poles with their raw VGPs
at random reduced densities can make a reliable APWP\@. Further we will see how
much data (raw VGPs) are needed on earth to make a reliable APWP, and how the
``bad'' poles influence the final result when we have less data. Are we be able
to make a final determination of best number of VGPs in each sliding window in
average for moving-averaging out an APWP? (No, different situations for
different continents.)}
\vfill
\minitoc\newpage

In the past, especially in deep time, the density and quality of paleomagnetic
data are lower, compared with younger geological times. Reducing the data
density can help see if our methodology is still able to reliably give
reasonable results from data aged in deep times.

\section{Reference Path}

The fixed hotspot model and related plate circuit predicted APWPs are used as
references. In fact, as mentioned in the last chapter, choosing FHM or MHM does
not make much difference at all.

\section{Extration Fraction}

The raw VGPs are extracted before being moving-averaged (i.e.\ picking and
weighting; see the last chapter for more details).

80\%, 60\%, 40\% and 20\% mean 20, 40, 60 and 80 percent of raw VGPs are
removed.

\begin{figure}
    \centering
        \includegraphics[width=0.88\textwidth]{fig/Fay18_10_5.pdf}
    \captionsetup{width=.95\textwidth}
    \caption{Random VGP samplings (30 times) for the best and worst results for
	the 10 Myr window and 5 Myr step paleomagnetic APWPs vs FHM \& plate circuit
	predicted APWP\@. The lower and upper bound lines connect the 1st and 3th
	quantiles of the 30 samples. The bold line connects their means. The
	numbers in small parentheses are actual quantity of VGPs after filtered by
	the corresponding picking methods for the case with no data
	removal.}\label{Fig:Fay18_10_5bw}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}
    \centering
        \includegraphics[width=0.88\textwidth]{fig/Fay18_10_5to101bw.pdf}
    \captionsetup{width=.95\textwidth}
    \caption{Comparisons of results from the best and worst methods for North
	America, applied on all the three continents.}\label{Fig:Fay18_10_5to101bw}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}
    \centering
        \includegraphics[width=0.88\textwidth]{fig/Fay18_10_5to501bw.pdf}
    \captionsetup{width=.95\textwidth}
    \caption{Comparisons of results from the best and worst methods for India,
	applied on all the three continents.}\label{Fig:Fay18_10_5to501bw}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}
    \centering
        \includegraphics[width=0.88\textwidth]{fig/Fay18_10_5to801bw.pdf}
    \captionsetup{width=.95\textwidth}
    \caption{Comparisons of results from the best and worst methods for
	Australia, applied on all the three continents.}\label{Fig:Fay18_10_5to801bw}
\end{figure}

We can see that the best picking and weighting methods are statistically always
better than the worst ones no matter how much data we have to compose the APWPs
(Fig.~\ref{Fig:Fay18_10_5bw}) for the three continents. For the worst methods
applied onto Indian and Australian data, The equal-weight $\mathcal{CPD}$
surprisingly decreases when the percentage of extracted data decrease. This is
because the extracted data are not always enough to cover all the time range of
120\textendash0 Ma but only part, or even though the 120 and 0 Ma mean poles
exist, the number of mean poles between 120 Ma and 0 Ma is much less than the
APWP from data without reducing density.

\subsection{Number of Samples}
Here because the thousands of times of testing for each percentage of data
removal and each picking and weighting method is rather expensive, 30 samples
(a rule of thumb; e.g.~\cite{H19} says ``greater than 25 or 30'') are obtained.
In fact, the 25th percentiles ($Q_1$), 75th percentiles ($Q_3$) and the means of
30, 60, 100, 200 and 1000 samples are not quite different
(Fig.~\ref{Fig:Fay18_10_5_0_0}), although 200 seems a better and relatively
cheaper option.

\begin{figure}
    \centering
        \includegraphics[width=0.88\textwidth]{fig/Fay18_10_5_0_0.pdf}
    \captionsetup{width=.95\textwidth}
    \caption{Testing differences of results from different numbers of samples.
	See Fig.~\ref{Fig:Fay18_10_5bw} for more details.}\label{Fig:Fay18_10_5_0_0}
\end{figure}

Describe the function fill-df-a95nan in ma.py:
Situation 1: Note that because of reducing of pole quantity in sliding windows,
in some window there could be only one VGP which does not have given ED95, DM
and DP, then we use $140/\sqrt{kN}$~\cite{T91,T19} to calculate a ED95 for this
VGP as its A95.

\section{Are The Rules we obtained in the last chapter are still true for less
data?}

First, that if APP is still better, and weighting is still not affecting for
less dense paleomagnetic data, is needed to be tested.

\begin{figure}
    \centering
        \includegraphics[width=1\textwidth]{fig/Fay18_10_5_101appamp.pdf}
    \captionsetup{width=1\textwidth}
    \caption{Comparisons of results from Picking No. 1 (APP) and Picking No. 0
	(AMP) with all the listed weighting methods for the three
	continents.}\label{Fig:Fay18_10_5_101appamp}
\end{figure}

From the perspective of checking if the $Q_1$\textendash$Q_3$ intervals overlap,
APP is indeed still better than AMP and weighting is indeed still not affecting
for more than 15 VGPs making a 10/5 Myr bin/step APWP (ideally composed of 25
mean poles for 120\textendash0 Ma). For the 20\% Indian data case, which
contains not more than 15 VGPs making a 120\textendash0 Ma APWP, there is
overlapping between APP's Mean\textendash$Q_3$ interval and AMP's
$Q_1$\textendash{}Mean interval for weighted cases (i.e.\ for Weighting No.
1\textendash5). Even so, APP's means are still lower than AMP's for this
no-more-than-15-VGPs case (Fig.~\ref{Fig:Fay18_10_5_101appamp}). So here is the
question: is 15 the threshold?
